-----------------------------------
     HOW TO WRITE PREDICAMENTS
-----------------------------------

Some people might think that writing a predicament for Funtimes would be quite the predicament, but that's not entirely true! It's only mostly true.

Some basic things to remember before you jump in:
1. Each "screen" of text in Funtimes is 1 predicament. The screen is cleared before each one.
2. All predicaments must be in /data/predicaments (relative to main.py) and have the .pred extension.
3. A .pred file can contain any number of predicaments, not just one. Use this for organization.
4. You can't really use = anywhere, ever. It's used for our syntax and we're too lazy to make an escape character.
5. Lines starting with # are comments -- Funtimes will ignore them.

Got it? Okay.

There are four absolutely essential parts of a predicament. If you don't have these, the game won't be able to figure out what's going on and will crash on start-up. These parts are:

-----------------------------------
            THE ESSENTIALS
-----------------------------------

1. A title
Each predicament must start by telling the game its title. This title must be unique. To set a title, use:
    new predicament = uniqueTitleGoesHere

2. The type of input required
We want the player to do something after reading the text of the predicament. Tell Funtimes what you want from the player.
    type = skip <-- if you want no input (funtimes goes to next predicament immediately)
    type = none <-- if you just want the player to press any key to continue to the next predicament
    type = normal <-- if you want the player to choose from multiple actions and movement (wsad, 1234)
    type = input <-- if you want the player to type something, like their name
In the case of 'input', you must also tell Funtimes where to store the stuff that the player typed:
    result = whatThePlayerTyped

3. The next predicament(s)
Nothing in Funtimes can be a dead end, so every predicament needs to point to at least one other predicament. For types of 'none', 'input', and 'skip', there will only be one destination, defined with:
    goto = titleOfTheNextPredicament
The player will go to titleOfTheNextPredicament after they hit any key (for 'none') or enter text and press enter (for 'input').
For 'normal' predicaments (those with multiple options), you need to tell Funtimes what the potential options are, and where they go:
    action = Drink too much grape juice. -> tooMuchGrape
    action = Build a better skirt. -> beKimPossible
In this case, the first action will be 'a - Drink too much grape juice.' and pressing 'a' will bring the player to tooMuchGrape (another predicament, this time in a more literal sense). Bear in mind that while you can put as many actions into the pred file as you want, Funtimes will actually ignore anything after the first six (123456).
Normal predicaments usually allow for movement as well:
    down = Go down. -> speakInTongues
Just like with actions, this will make Funtimes print "v - Go Down." and pressing the down key (by default s) will send the player to speakInTongues. The other directions are obviously up, left, and right.

4. The ending
Every predicament needs to end with the following line:
    end of predicament

Those are the basics.

Other things you'll want to have in the majority of predicaments:

-----------------------------------
            THE BASICS
-----------------------------------

1. Text
Most predicaments need at least one line of text.
    text = Insert your text here.
    text = Here's a second line of text.
You can write however many lines of text you want, but each new line needs to start with "text ="
Leading whitespace is normally stripped out by Funtimes, so you can format stuff however you want and have it display the same within the game. However, text only strips out the *first* space, so be mindful of that. This is so you can format the text to look all pretty -- for example, the way the instructions are centred on the Funtimes title screen.
If you want Funtimes to print whatThePlayerTyped from above, put %whatThePlayerTyped% -- it'll be replaced by the value.
If you want a blank line, just put "text =" and then continue to the next line. An empty text field will turn into a blank line.

2. Map
You'll want most of the game to have maps, which help orient the player by providing limited visuals. Bear in mind that they are *very* limited: you can only use ascii characters. All maps are stored in /data/maps, relative to main.py, and are defined such:
    map = bedroom
This will make the predicament display /data/maps/bedroom.map
Funtimes will centre the map at the top of the screen, before printing any text (but under the 'name', see below). This map will continue to display at the top of your predicaments until another predicament re-sets the map to something else, or you explicitly clear it with the following:
    map = none
If the "room" your map portrays has multiple entry points, make sure to set the map in all of them or you'll have unintended results.

3. Name
This is the pretty name for your predicament, which gets displayed over the map.
    name = Bedroom
Just like with maps, Funtimes will continue to display this name over maps until it gets re-set to something else. Therefore, if the "room" it refers to has multiple entry points, make sure to set the name in all of them. If the map is cleared (set to none), then Funtimes won't show the name.

4. Prompt
At the bottom of each predicament, Funtimes prints some kind of prompt within square brackets. For 'normal' predicaments, the prompt is "What do you want to do?" by default. You can change this for the current predicament with:
    prompt = What don't you want to do?
Don't try to set prompt to a blank value when you want to remove the prompt. To remove it, use 'disable' (see below).

-----------------------------------
           ADVANCED STUFF
-----------------------------------

Things you might want in some predicaments:

1. Disable
Funtimes has a set of common things that you want in 99% of predicaments. In the rare cases when you want these things not to happen, you can disable them using:
    disable = [keyword]
The keywords are thus:
    prompt: Removes the square-bracketed prompt (e.g., "What do you want to do?")
    fancytext: Makes the predicament pop immediately into existence, instead of animating.
    pause: Makes ESC and P not work -- this also disallows saving and loading.

2. Sound
Makes Funtimes play a wav file out of /data/sounds
    sound = cash
Makes it play '/data/sounds/cash.wav'. Bear in mind that sound doesn't work for everyone. It's for fanciness -- you can't use it as a mandatory part of your predicament.

3. Set
To set a variable to later be used, use the following:
    set nameOfVariable = value
This will create nameOfVariable (if it doesn't already exist) and set it to "value". You can later use this value in your predicaments by typing %nameOfVariable% into a text field.

4. If
oh god what am i doing

-----------------------------------
        ORDER OF OPERATIONS
-----------------------------------

Instead of being intelligently-designed and interpreting your lines in sequential order, Funtimes interprets all your lines at once when it first creates your predicament, then parses them in a specific order:
    1) if
    2) set
    3) map
    4) name
    5) sound
    6) text/yell/cyan
    7) prompt
    8) type
    9) up/down/left/right
   10) goto/action
Disable is not really a parsed line itself, since it merely changes the behaviour of other lines.
The most important thing to take away from this is the fact that 'set' is interpreted after 'if'. This means you CAN use 'set' within a conditional statement and have it work as expected in your predicament (e.g., set the player's money to 0 if their luck is 0) but you can't perform an if on a value set during the same predicament. If you want to force a 'set' to happen before 'if' and can't spare a predicament, you can fudge it by using a 'skip' predicament with no text -- this will be invisible to the player.
